Query: add optional tenancy enforcement (#6756)
thanos-io/thanos: docs/components/query.md

Reviewer: Let's maybe also try to document this feature! 🙂

Author: Absolutely. I plan on this as well, but can is it OK to do in the followup or do you want it right away?

Reviewer: Yup, follow up works!

Reviewer: This feature is a bit tricky to setup correctly, so I'd really appreciate if you could add a section in query docs on how to enable tenancy enforcement, with this PR! :)

`--query.active-query-path` is an option which allows the user to specify a directory which will contain a `queries.active` file to track active queries. To enable this feature, the user has to specify a directory other than "", since that is skipped being the default.

## Tenancy

### Tenant Metrics

Tenant information is captured in relevant Thanos exported metrics in the Querier, Query Frontend and Store. In order make use of this functionality requests to the Query/Query Frontend component should include the tenant-id in the appropriate HTTP request header as configured with `--query.tenant-header`. The tenant information is passed through components (including Query Frontend), down to the Thanos Store, enabling per-tenant metrics in these components also. If no tenant header is set to requests to the query component, the default tenant as defined by `--query.tenant-default-id` will be used.

### Tenant Enforcement

> Enforcement of tenancy can be enabled using `--query.enforce-tenancy`. If enabled, queries will only return results which contains a matching label, where the label name is `--query.tenant-label-name` and the label value matches the tenant as sent to the querier in the HTTP header configured with `--query-tenant-header`. This functionality requires that metrics are injected with a tenant label when ingested into Thanos. This can be done for example by enabling tenancy in the Thanos Receive component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enforcement of tenancy can be enabled using `--query.enforce-tenancy`. If enabled, queries will only fetch series containing a specific matcher, while evaluating PromQL expressions. The matcher label name is `--query.tenant-label-name` and the matcher value matches the tenant, as sent to the querier in the HTTP header configured with `--query-tenant-header`. This functionality requires that metrics are injected with a tenant label when ingested into Thanos. This can be done for example by enabling tenancy in the Thanos Receive component.
```
